
Case Audit Training
Wed, 1/19 5:26PM • 1:06:31
SUMMARY KEYWORDS
client, case, bills, subrogation, cairo, pay, hospital, attorney, letter, records, med, mri, liability, defendant, insurance, insurance company, estimate, health insurance, er physician, lien

00:00
You're going to leave town.

00:03
Okay, well, should we look at should we look at wills? Or who's? Like wills?

00:10
Yes, yes screen? Yeah.

00:14
Okay. Um, so here, the case timeline. I wish you could see both screens, but like, there's certain things we need to record. Hmm. We'll record I'll record. You are okay. So who's that yourself? Okay, Albert. Okay. So we need to make sure that we get the police report that everything starts off because of the police report. If we don't have the police report, we don't get policy limits. We don't get liability acceptance, we don't get the car started to getting fixed. You know, when you get that when we get the police report, we need to make sure that we have the body worn camera, if it says it on there that there's a body worn camera, you need to order it because they think they only keep it for so long. Let me see here.

01:00
School, okay.

01:04
We also in Nevada, we need to make sure that we send a lien to the defendant because the defendant may move, and we don't know where he lives, there's a rule. And it's called the Golightly versus renoun case. And I think it's 18.015 or something interests. And it says that you have to lean a case. Otherwise, you are in bad position if you're pro rata. So pro rata means that we will get a percentage of the case even though we did all of the work, so we need to make sure that we leave the case in the beginning. Um, so you're supposed to lean it to the defendant, you're supposed to lean it to the client. And it's supposed to be set certified unless the client signed in person. So if the client signed in person, I gotta save myself six bucks on certified mail or whatever it costs for certified mail. So if you were to go look at this, let's go look at this. There's a case timeline, I'm going to go over my course thing. So here's the case timeline. So when you first take a case, so you do the intake, oops, sorry, when you first do the intake, let's do this bigger, how can I do this bigger zoom to 200%? Okay, when you first do the case intake, you'd open the claim, you need to send out the letter of rec, we might need to go, who remind promised that we might need to also send out a preservation letter right here. Can you say that send that to Almark? Can you send that to promise, right here, we might also need to send a preservation letter, we might send a preservation letter, if a client is driving an Uber was riding in an Uber if the client was hit by a cab, or if the client was hit by like a semi truck or something, because they might have a video, you know, like, we just saw cap where the our client didn't stop at all. And rant did like California stopped and stopped the stop sign at all. And then they ran into third party who we thought was third party really Arclight cause the case, you know, caused the crash. So you know, and they had a video of that. So we want to make sure that we preserve evidence, we might want to preserve evidence other places too, like if further we're in a bank, or shopping center, they might have had like some kind of cameras rolling, but they don't currently have a duty and it's still hard for me to understand how they can they're not a non party, you know what I mean? So we can send it to them, but I don't know what they're going to do for us, you know, um, optional things that we could do is open a first party claim, we can send a letter of rep to the first party, we're starting to do that now we're gonna give it a try. So that we get the property damage and medpay. If the client doesn't want us to, then we need to have a conversation with that client possibly. So it's a case by case basis, if the defendants third party has a million dollars, and our client has 2550. Maybe we don't care if we open first party, you know what I mean? But it's a case by case basis. All of this is a case by case basis. So that's what we're doing all of these things at the same time. So we're trying to get the property damage fix, we're trying to get the med pay you I am we're trying to go open that third party claim, doing all that also sending a preservation letter. So what's missing here is a preservation letter. So I'll mark is going to notify promised to edit this. You want to make sure that your client is treating either with a chiropractor, physical therapist and either general physician or pain management physician, okay? So it's either chiropractic physical therapy, one or the other, or a general physician or pain management physician, then you want to open health insurance subrogation claim because health insurance needs to be on notice what they need to look out for like your client saying that they have neck headaches, neck problems, headaches and back problems to subrogation needs to start looking for that and keeping track of what's related to the accident. Property damaging to make sure that you start getting on that they might need their car towed out, they might need their car repaired, they might need their car total out they might need diminished value which we decided was a lot of work. So we're doing it on like really high value cars. Loss of use for the time they didn't have a car rental, you know, they also are entitled to loss of use. So we might be helping with gap claim there's a lot to do in property damage want to make sure that it's all done. Liability acceptance, um, liability acceptance is very important because God forbid we continue on with this case, we're all working for free, the doctors, the attorneys, everyone's working for free, because you have not gotten liability acceptance and we want to in writing.

05:21
If not, we want to send a letter confirming liability acceptance like pursuant to this day, felice, you told us that liability was accepted. If that does not comport with your understanding, please notify us and we have these all these letters doc Jen, because I know like some hurdles that people have is that they don't even know how to write the letter. So we have all these letters, Doc, gents. You just press a button and send it or someone can press a button and send it for you, you know, so you spoke to the adjuster, they said that liability was accepted or whatever, if liability is not accepted, and it's only partially accepted, we want to know why do they think that our client was the last known look out or something it did not look out. Some of this stuff is just a made up shit that they made up, you know, your client did look out? Well? Are we supposed to look out for cars darting right in front of us that made left turns? I was going straight? am I really supposed to look for cars turning in front of me when they're not supposed to be? You know what I mean? Or they'll be like, Oh, your client was speeding? Well, we have case law that says speeding doesn't matter. That's what the case law is changed the law, then if you don't believe in it, you know, make sure that we get the hospital related records and bills. So we need to ask our client to go get that because our client will get much more of a different discount. If it's a cash pay. Once they know that the firm in a law firm is in play, they will no longer get that cash pay discount. So if your client pretends like hey, I'm just a poor, starving student, or I'm just really poor and I should be on Medicaid or whatever, they're going to get more of a discount with the hospital than us notifying them and saying, Hey, by the way, again, law firm here, charges full price, we want our clients to save $10,000 on their bills, because then we get a third they get a third and the doctors all get other doctors can get paid, you know, we don't want the hospitals could we don't really care about the two are like these needs a huge, like million dollar companies to make all this money. You know, we want our clients to try and get the bills and records on their own. When you get the hospital, you know that there's related records, it's kind of like stepping in foot of a mall and then getting other bills. So you're going to have the ER physician that saw you, he's going to send you a bill, the ER radiology that saw you, he's gonna send you a bill. So, for example, I was looking on St. Roses website the other day, and I'll show you what it said. Because I was Googling insurance on St. Rose insurance. So getting with one of the hospitals that we have in Las Vegas, and it says Oh, insurance plans. So you look at here and it says all the insurances and on the bottom it says physicians on staff, they're independent contractors of the hospital are not covered under our managed care contracts. So go so that's why you're getting billed from the insurance, the ER physician and er, radiology. So the radiology read your eye stuff. He's giving you a bill, the doctor who read your stuff, he's giving you a bill, and you'll get a bill from the hospital because you stepped foot in the hospital. So you're going to get more bills than one if you go to hospital, you should get at least three and four if you got an ambulance, okay. Sometimes the hospitals do manage it under one. I've seen some bills with like northeast a hospital like the low income ones where they put like radiology and ER physician on the bill. But normally it's all separate bills. So make sure that you get all those bills and those records, usually the ER physician bills and the the radiology bills are separate. But the records are in the bill that are in the hospital record. So the hospital record will say like Doctor so and so saw this client, they did one leg raise test or whatever and they did this test and that test. And then we read radiology and the radiology said that the client had a fracture, or you know that their x ray was clean or whatever their CT scan said this or whatever. That's usually in the hospital records. So there's not a separate record for the ER physician or the ER, radiology it's usually included in the hospital records. So it'll be hospital record, hospital bill, ER bill, er, radiology bill, there will not be ER physician Bill records and there will not be ER physician records either. So there's not separate records for that hope you know that everything all the records in the hospital record, but they will also build separately. Does that make sense? Does everybody get that? Everybody? Okay, in Nevada, we need to be the case if not, we're going to be in proposition.

09:45
It's the go lightly versus renown case, because they did not lean the thing by leaning, we need to either send certified letters to the defendant and the plaintiff saying we're entitled to 33 and a third or 28 or 30 or 31 or whatever we agreed to or 40%, when we go to trial, that's what the lien says. And it has to be sent certified unless the client signed in person, if the client signs in person, I saved my $6.50 to go send that with that little green certified mail card. Um, and we should also let the insurance company No. The insurance company, like for example, if they have state farm as a first party and defendant has Geico, we need to send a letter to Geico And State Farm, we don't normally do that, unless we are we know that we're going to be like in trouble. Um, because I think that the statute says you only need to do it to the defendant and the plaintiff. So you know, but like when we know that we're going to be in an interpleader situation, or something, then we send out that notice, because we want to save money, we don't want to have to spend like $50 on a case at the beginning of the case. But at the very least, you should at least send it to the defendant certified because the defendant may move in two years. So while you know where he lives, and the darn thing certify, and you want to order the police report, because that's where everything starts off. So it's all based on this. Did we get the police report? Did we order the photos because as I said on the bottom of the police report, it's like photos, and if it says body worn camera, we need to request that body worn camera. And did we send a lien to the defendant? Okay, did we get sure make sure that the client is treating with a doctor? Pain Management and Cairo or PT so it's one or the other? Or Kira Petey. Okay. And if there's any suggestions on this while you're looking then let us know because I think only Joe cell and I can edit this

11:45
so to one or the other. And one way or the other. So pick your poison. Their PT is only used if someone's like really in pain and they can't be doing Cairo. You know, they need they're just too gentle to touch, you know, or whatever. Did we open health insurance subrogation? So we need to make sure that we do that. Um, did we open a claim and determine the liability if it's acceptable? So did we open a claim?

12:23
So did we open a claim? Usually we would have opened the claim did we determine liability sometimes also, did we send preservation letters? If applicable, okay, did the vehicle get inspected so it needs to be inspected by third party or first party? Did the vehicle get removed from a tow yard? We need to make sure it's removed from a tow yard as soon as possible if it's not then it's going to be sold? And then we'll have more problems to find so be really upset. Um Do we have a property damage estimate? Do we have pictures of both vehicles because sometimes we only get one and then I'm like the client changes are phone and we're like Dude, we don't have pictures of the whole you want to try and get pictures of the accident scene like I didn't get I got the pictures of when I was in my XML so even myself I should have like walked back and looked at how the parked car for position and take a picture you should do that when you're in an accident you know not just like the picture of like the cars together if you can't see like how the opposition you know let's see what else part if the property damage estimate is low I keep seeing these estimates that are low and then the the case Manor doesn't really think to themselves maybe I should get another estimate when it's like under two grand or so like even under 2500 We should probably get another estimate because I've seen these even on my own car they're like oh this 20 is $1,800 of damage I'm like no way is that $1,800 from the damage like the whole headlight side was taken off and the insurance company will say that it's low damage I don't know where they're getting these estimates from but it's really reduced. So we need to make sure we get another estimate you know because then the insurance company is going to be like how could you be so injured we barely tap dress so we want to make sure we get the highest estimate we can get did we get the client or rental so things like that loss of US GAAP car totaled out and some of this is not going to be done right away. This might take two months you know

14:49
so it won't be done in month one. Okay, and did we get did we give the client an update? We need to talk her clients once a month. Can we wrap this text wrapping wrap? Okay, and then the bills again should be about 2500. That's on estimate because it could be higher because the client could have gone to hospital right?

15:18
On average, if it's not 2500, then there might be some gaps in treatment. Did I not spell hospital? Right? Looks like there's two T's in that. Yeah. Okay. All this needs to be wrapped is gonna start annoying the crap out of me. Format wrapping? Okay, um, if the client has a prior, we might want the records if it's a big case, you know, is the client still treating? And they're still probably treating with a Cairo and pain management or whatever, um, health insurance subrogation, we don't need to worry about right now. Has liability been accepted? If not, why not? We want to know why. Right? If not, we need to fight it. We need to fight that we need to go get like we have most of those letters doc, Jen. But we might need a law clerk to like edit it or something, you know, like, I shouldn't have to go look, you turned left either right away. You were speeding the case law or whatever the case law says it doesn't matter if I was speeding, you know, or whatever. So there's letters that we can determine on that and say like, it's not our fault, like pursuant to NRS. Or pursuant to WAC not our fault says that I've got the right away as going straight. Here. We're turning yellow, or yellow. Did we get the policy limits? If it's a higher case, we need to see if there's an umbrella if.

16:53
So you know, you're injured, we might want to see if there's an umbrella and those start at $100,000 policies on up. So if defendant has 100k policy, there might be an umbrella. Okay. Why is it not wrapping? Maybe it is wrapping text wrap? Okay, it's just not high enough. We're met so height. So I don't know, can you fix it for me, Joe, sell all of these off a little bit. Okay, get loss of use and possibly rare cases diminished value, make sure that attorney speaks to the client. Once we get that policy limits, I want an attorney to speak to that client. Even if we don't get the policy limits. I want the client attorney speak to the client, okay.

17:56
Sometimes you have to understand, so, John. Yeah. Something about the virtual assistants is that they're very literal. So one day I said, Hey, wipe out the interest on this loan. And I thought they wiped out the whole loan because like, the lender was like, I didn't get paid. And I was like, Holy crap, I hope I don't owe $10,000 Because they didn't understand wipe out like they didn't get like wipe out the interest on the loan, you know, right. Yeah. A difference. Like one time I was trying to buy a Purple Mattress. The virtual assistants were looking all over for purple colored mattress. Not knowing that there's a it's the company's called Purple really liked purple. Like, they are like robots. Sometimes virtual assistants are very much like robots. So sometimes they don't understand the nuances like Cedric's not going to go tell you their policy limits. But you know, it's a freaking commercial policy. Right. Some virtual assistants be like, Well, I don't need you to talk to him yet. Because whatever the policy limits yet, and I'm like, No, you must talk because you can kind of tell you're like the guy got hit by a bus like the bus probably has no door policy, you know, right, waiting till you got a policy limit before you make me talk to the client. Yeah, that's like situations when the virtual assistants they don't think sometimes, you know, like, I get mad at them for not thinking I'm like, two, two plus two is four. Why do I have to tell you the answers for like, for example, exemptions, like they weren't doing the ARB exemptions and I'm like, I don't care if your attorneys not doing them. How do you not know that we need our exemption at this amount of meds? How do you not know that they weren't supposed to name some experts like we're going to try and we're like, we got no experts to testify on our behalf and I'm like, how did you not know this? Like your guys are a team before like how it were four of you guys sleeping at the wheel. So your virtual assistants are very they're very literal. Okay, so it's about 5000 and men's right now because they've only been really going to the Cairo um, third month you're checking to see if the client has had an MRI because they should have had it, they should have it earlier. But the insurance company's like, no, that's not normal because they want stuff to erase. They kind of want the client to get better. Like I was just talking to Nixon about that. It's like the protocol in the med Journal says that they should have it earlier, but then they don't want to pay for it if it's earlier because the insurance company wants the client to go mess up and say I feel better now. Um, yeah, did the client have an MRI? Because again, that's the map of what's wrong with the body. If the client went to the hospital, do we have all the hospital records and bills, if not a Almark? Everyone that's auditing cases asked the case manager like what's going on? Like, oh, client had COVID and couldn't get it? Oh, I forgot the client really wants us to get it because there's no way in hell she doesn't care if she has to pay more. She she went back to Alabama, she was visiting says Seattle and got hit, you know, and they can't go to Providence go get their bills and records because normally we want clients to go to the hospital to get the bills and records, right? And just say like, Hey, hear by the way, here's my insurance card again, Bill my insurance and then you know, but not tell them that the represented Okay. Um, so we would ask the case manager like, Hey, dude, did you forget like what's going on with your client? Did we submit LTB a letter to Bill health insurance. So we don't want letter to Bill health insurance. So I finally talked to Kayla yesterday,

21:21
we want.

21:46
So, I've been looking at the statutes because I'm teaching a class because we're creating these courses. Right. So I told you that we have all these courses, intake have been working on subrogation. But once in a while one of you guys will do something and then I'm back on your cases again. Unfortunately, it's like playing Whack a Mole. And like, Oh, Bob isn't working. I'll be watching Bob's cases on the weekend, though, like. So anyway, what you can do is the insurance, our our laws in Nevada are kind of a little screwy. So before Medicare, and Medicaid would get like, these, like, give us like, these bills for like, 10% of the bill, you know, be like $10,000 Bonus, like, Okay, you owe us $1,000, which is great. Somehow, we sent some legislators to our whatever, whenever they have their legislative thing or whatever, their meetings every two years. Yeah, your sessions, okay. And they got talked into going and giving them 50% I'm like, Hold on wrong way, dude. Like, it used to be 10%. And now you've negotiated 50%. Crazy, like, Are you helping me or hurting me? So um, we've got this, like, AB 107, or something. And she's acid in 17, that says that now they can go and get 50% Instead of billing, Medicare, or Medicaid and go get 50% of their bill. I'm, what hospitals I'm trying to go talk to like my guru in all this, because I've never been really good at reading case law, or this, like, the story bit about me is that I thought I was gonna be a developer, I was like, screw this. See you guys later, I got this law degree, and I'm going to become a developer, I'll be in jets, and I'm having my black card, you know what I mean, but then the market crash in 2007. So I fell back on that practicing law and becoming a business person instead. So my, I'm not very good at reading the statutes and stuff. So she needs to read it to me, because what it says makes it sound like is that the insurance company or the hospitals can only charge you as much as insurance amount is, so you aren't supposed to be billed more than your co pays deductibles, and whatever insurance would charge you. But what the issue is, is the State Bar has this rule that says if we don't pay it, we can have our licenses online. So it's like, Great, this law says this, but then the State Bar made us the debt collector. So um, but how you can get around it is that you can go to the insurance company. So you can go to culinary, you can go to Medicaid, you can go to whatever and you can say, hey, this hospital has a contract with you. And you can go look at the contracts kind of like when we looked at dignity, health contracts, and we can go to Anthem Blue Cross Blue Shield and say, Hey, by the way, St. Rose, um, by the way, Anthem, St. Rose has a contract with you and they're violating your contract and they're going after your insurance for more money. Can you help us out? Like can you can we double team on this? Like, can we work together and go after dignity St. Rose and tell them like, can we go after providence and tell them that they're overbilling? So you can go say to them that they're violating the contract because they signed up for this contract? Does that make sense? Right? This is providence. Providence says, Oh, no way do I want to build anthem because instead of me getting 1000 bucks, I want to get 10,000. So what we do is we go behind them and say, Hey, Anthem, here's the bill from Providence. Providence is trying to collect 10,000, when they got a contract with you to go get your insurance, your clients, my client, a discount of 9000. So you go ask the health insurance company to work with you, against the hospital, right? Trying to abuse the law in their favor. What you're trying to do is trying to be like Mommy doesn't want to play. So let's go to see daddy. You know, if if I can't get it this way, if the statute is in my favor, what I can do is go tell the insurance company that the hospital is violating the contract that they have with the health insurance company, and health insurance company, please help me out, go after the hospital and tell them no, no, no, you should not be going after Jane Doe for her settlement, you should be going and giving her her insured discount. It says

26:01
yeah,

26:03
everybody gets that. So he should be getting the hospital bills and records and submitting them.

26:51
So we want to get our clients the best discount that we can. So we don't really want to send that Bill health insurance letter. So I already got that cleared up. Um, yeah. Just how can you fix that field? It's starting to bug me. It's not wide enough. If the client has Med Pay coverage, then did we submit a med pay demand with the exhibit, so we need to submit some stuff with an exhibit. So how Med Pay is to get it's like a rebate, you need to make sure that you've got like a demand letter saying like, Hey, by the way, I need $2,000 of my med pay. And here's some bills and records. And you want to do it in a chronological order has to tell the story, you can't really go say and by the way, here is a result of me. No, you want to go like here's this, this is what happened here, I'm giving you the $2,000 bills in the beginning like Cairo bells, you don't want to send like bills, like from the middle of the crash, you know, you've got to go set in chronological order so that you can kind of like, get all this Med Pay is property damage complete. Um, do we have the final PDF estimate because again, if the car got torn up or whatever, and got, you know, dismantled and got new parts in it, it was probably probably found more damage later on. So there might be a higher PD estimate. There's also something about seat belt tensioners, which I really need to talk to some people because sometimes your seat belts, they tense up, and they like fire. And then your seatbelts are no longer good. Like you need your seatbelts replaced. And it's like, it's weird in every single car, like some cars, like, they'll fire up because they know that you're in it, you know, sometimes, like I put a bunch of shit on my car seat, you know, like a bunch of boxes, or whatever. And I think someone's sitting there. So it's like, I gotta brace you. So I got to fire and protect you from your seat going like, you know, so from you jerking forward and hitting your head on the windshield. So your seat belt tensioner sometimes also shoot off, and then they're no good anymore, you need them replaced. So sometimes you want your PD estimate to include that because that's the secret of getting your seat, your thing bounced up a little bit, you know, you're to pad your bill a little bit. Um, there's other things too, because if the client has a, everybody knows this, right? If the client had a child seat that child seats no longer good. You needed a child to replace and it's the fair market value, whatever that child seat is on Amazon or something. So it is no longer good. If that child seats in an accident, you can't no longer use it. So make sure that the client gets their PD done. Did we apply it provide the client with a case update? And here it might be 7500 to 12,000? Because it depends if it's three months of Cairo. Um, your bill should be like $2,500 a month right? And then if you got like an MRI, those are 1650 in Las Vegas and 21 2200 in Washington. So how many MRIs did you get like different body parts? Did you get your neck did you get your mid flat back, lower back? upper back? Did you get your like sacral area you your lumbar, you know your thoracic, cervical. So what kind of MRIs did you get? Those are going to be 1500. I mean, 1650 to like 2200 2100 in each section of your body. Um, the other things that we need to talk about is so this is your body. Let's see here. So this is what your body looks like. And it's like your cervical area right here. So C, one C, two C, three C, four C, five, associate, thoracic T, one through 12. Lumbar is right here and your lower back, and then sacral right here.

30:48
I hate what's going off my computer. Okay, so there's that. So you can be getting MRIs in different locations of your body in each locations and the cost 1650 to 2020 120 200 depending on if you're Las Vegas, or fair, Washington. The other things are, John, you don't know this yet. But John Harrison on here. Yeah. Okay. You guys have to know that what you can approve, and you can't approve. And you've got to watch it. If the case is a 20 $525,000. Case. It's like if I gave you so much money for your party, if I if you have a $25,000 party, you got to go leave some money. Let's say you got to leave some money for your your well, you caught your vacation, your honeymoon. Okay, let's say it was for your wedding. Your mom and dad gave you $25,000 for this wedding. But you need to leave half of it for your your, your honeymoon. Got it? If you used it all on the DJ, you if you used all money on DJ, you're not going to have any money for everything else. Right? You're not have money for the food, the invitations, the location, you know, so that's the same thing with Cairo. We can't use so much in Cairo. You can only do like 2500 to like 3000 and Cairo? Cuz you gotta think about everyone else on there. Right? Um, everyone else on there? Let's see here. Let's go look at an example. Jane Doe case, Jane Doe. So everyone else on there? If let me see here. So let's actually do this. So let's say you put Cairo and let's say that the Cairo, you know, and then you get 25,000. Sometimes I think you guys have to see this. So I'm gonna hit that. And then let's say you get to pain management. And that is 10,000. Like, you know, and then you had to go get anesthesia. And that was 2000. And then you had an MRI. And let's say that you had two MRIs. In Washington, your client is getting really like, your client is not doing very hot, you know what I mean? Like, your clients gonna get nothing in their pocket, and they're be like, I could have done better by myself. Do you see what I'm saying? Like, you can't use up all your money, like, you can't use up all your money on that, or you're have a really bad honeymoon, you know, like, look, and then guess what, guess who has to take 25%? Me? Because you poorly managed this case. And guess what, I'm going to be asking all my providers for 50% off and they're not going to be very happy, right? Like, they may not ever work for us again, because we can't manage your case. Well, do you see what I'm saying? So sometimes you guys don't see all this that I see. But like you've got to like think about like everything else because there might be prescriptions on here. And let's say the prescriptions are $1,000 You might have like a urine test. And now that's 900. And you see how the math doesn't work out? You're gonna have to ask everyone to go reduce a lot and then you may not get more clients. I always use this example called my one of my clients. Her name was Molly Malone, Molly Malone. I've been selling her houses for years. I sold her son's houses. I sold her houses. And Molly Malone's like 80 years old. One day, one of my case managers or my real estate agents messed up her costs. And yes, I should have looked at it I should have looked at before it went out. I was like a little busy or whatever. And we went to go see her and she included what does she include in there she included mobile homes in there as well. comps and I'm like, Oh my God, you know. So now Lolly lost credibility with us she never wants to sell a house with us again and Lolly is like eight years old and has like 10 other homes to sell. So we lost probably $100,000 from Wally, because you imagine every home in Las Vegas is like 4000. And you're matching a 3%. Commission, you're losing $12,000 per home times 10 homes.

35:24
So one of your case managers could lose your if Kenny Cairo Keti is sending us cases, or Cairo will masky or Cairo whomever, they're going to stop sending us cases, if we poorly managed these cases, we could lose 10 more cases from it, we could lose 50, they could have been sending us 10 cases a year for the next five years. And now we've lost credibility with them. Because we poorly manage this. And I could be losing a lot of money that that person don't care, that case manager doesn't care cuz they'll just go somewhere else and strip their cases. You know, so we've got to like really manage this because I don't want to work for 25%. At $6,000 It doesn't keep the lights on, you know, there's so much money to carry this office, our loans are at 10% 12% loans. We've got the building the rent, the utilities, fiber, internet computers that we buy in bulk, all the people that we have with like a runner, we have the computer guy IT guy intake people so that you guys don't have to stay up all night and take intakes, right? We've got attorneys salaries to litigate these cases, there's a lot of expenses. If I was making breakeven on every case, I would not be happy. So that's why you got to watch the Chiro. Sometimes you've got to be like, Oh, dude, let's do 2500 on here, you know, nudge nudge, you know, and call them like, Hey, if you do want more care, I'm not going to stop you, what you're going to do is you're have to try and get health insurance because the lien holder is not going to approve this anymore, you know, or maybe you'll be like one MRI, unless you want more MRIs, you're gonna have to go try and get health insurance for it because the lien holder is not going to prove it. A lien holder is a company, they do not want to lose money, no business is in business to lose money, you know, they're making calculated bets on you to make sure that they get paid. So you know, here, then we're all a little bit better. I'm feeling better. Everyone else is feeling better. You know, we've got to watch this stuff. Maybe we need to turn the prescriptions to 350 only. And then at that rate, you know, everyone's not taking like a huge dump on this case, you know. So hopefully, you can see what this is like.

37:49
As 30, this might be a dumb question is 35 Just like that baseline reduction that you're going for by having them with their own bills? Is that kind of Yeah,

37:58
it's higher in Washington, Las Vegas, but they will freak out in Washington. If you ask for more than 35. Yeah, they will freak out. They'll never send you another client. Because then they'll be like, there's a sky and I don't know who's the guy in Washington, you know, but there's a guy named Adam Kutner in here, he just burned and turns people like you. You're like, you'd have to be like, desperate for cases to work for him. Because they'd be like, Oh, I dropped that one. It was poorly managed. She's more of like a chop shop, you know. So here, everybody's a little bit happier. You know, I'm saying everybody's happy. We all don't need to take like a huge haircut. Like, it's money, we get money. Everybody's happy. So I would say this is maybe 7500, maybe even less? I don't know, because I am counting the anesthesia in there. But yeah, at this rate, everyone's happy. It's one big happy family we all get paid. So you just got to watch that. Like, if you like we have this one Cairo today that I looked at, I'm like, Who sent them to Don Novus? And everybody knows us Cairo, he will run up the bills to like way more than this, he will run up the bill for 15 grand. And then you're doing an interpleader and he thinks it's cute. He thinks it's great because everyone else needs to take a freaking haircut because now I need to go ask these guys because this guy's being an asshole Don Novus. Can you guys take 60% off because we got to pay this guy. That's not fair, you know? Yeah. Like really not fair. Like you're not like That's why some of the Cairo's gotta be careful with like, as soon as they hear that your personal injury attorney, they're like, oh, yeah, I want to go work up the bills. I'm sorry. I'm gonna keep you guys on overtime if you need to hop on hop off. I know I took a little longer. Um, fourth month after they read the MRI, you're usually getting an injection or if they don't want an injection, you know, you want to talk to them about it like don't want you to have these issues, like, you've got your MRI and you've got tears and you got bulges, those things are not going to be back, I don't want you to have to, like, take something that's like a bandaid for now. And then a year later, when this case is closed up, you're gonna have to reopen this and go get this and hopefully you have a job by then because who's gonna pay for it? You know, even if you had health insurance, you got to pay co pays and deductibles, some people's deductibles are five grand, you know, and that's not fair because someone negligently hit you. So you know, you either want them to get the injections, or you want to talk to them, about like the ramifications of it, you're also going to get a low settlement because it's usually based on your meds. It's usually a multiplier for medical bills. We talked about this, um, and we can have this discussion later about it, but they're either getting an injection or physical therapy. So we really do want to talk to them and make sure that they're informed about their decisions. You know, I've talked to clients where they're like, I didn't get a surgery because I was busy working and then now I need to pay for tryna $50,000 surgery, you're like, Well, you've gone to a good attorney that sat down and talk to you about like the ramifications of this because we do it all day long. They might have told you like, hey, take a break. Don't worry about yourself and not worry about like selling homes, you know, did we get the subrogation lien and then we looked at the subrogation lien yesterday, I'm gonna do it for everyone else that wasn't on here. Personal Injury school. So I want one that's substantive that has some things on it, not one that's just like blank, that's just a space holder who sometimes they'll send you one, it's blank, that's just a space holder. You don't want it's blank. You want one that's on there, like, hey, we'll get to that lien later. No, you want something that's on there so that you can see what you need to take on and off. Because you want to do that as soon as possible, so that you can get your client paid, you know, so it'll look like this is what a subrogation lien looks like and you go Google it and you're like, Oh, what is Stuart Kaplan? Oh, he's a doctor. That's why it's $1,000 Oh, what is this guy? He's an MRI. Okay, that's an x ray or whatever, you know, and you need to take things on and off of here because some things are not related. Some things are like cold. Okay, his cold was not related. him going in for his his you know, his for a woman like a gynecological visit is not supposed to be related. Your earache is not related. Let me take it off. Oh, hold on. Why is it that why isn't ER physician on here, I need to get that put on there. You know, I need to figure out a way of like working on the back end to try and get that on here. Like with the health insurance companies submitting the bills to health insurance, so they'll go after the ER physician. To get this sometimes we also need to tell the ER physician to send the bill back to the hospital. You know, so you got to look at all this. I'm sorry. Did someone say something?

42:46
No. Okay. So this is what an initial subrogation lien looks like you want one that has some stuff on it, some meat to it. If it's just like someone that's like blank, then you got to like push for that. You need to make sure the attorney speaks to the client every two months, I think that we're going to get better settlements. If we have the client speaking to the attorney every two months, an attorney that cares anyway, some attorneys don't care. So are they again, are they getting, they're usually getting an another injection or something. And this might be at five months or beyond, because it's anywhere from that first injection, the injection may last and then it may come back, you know, the injuries may come back. So because the steroid does wear off, you know, so they're either getting an injection another injection, and are we providing case updates. And then this goes up by like, you know, so much money each time they have an injection. So six months and beyond, there might be even more things they either may be injections, physical therapy. Or they may be getting Rosatom ease. surgery or something I don't know, it's probably a little bit longer than that. But like they could be mother, other things that they could be getting, because the injections didn't work. Like if, after two to three times, again, these injections sometimes there's a few more injections, if it doesn't work, you need to go do something else you might need to reach out to me might need to get surgery, you know, and that's at six months beyond mark or when the client has maximum medical improvement or when we hit the policy limits we got to switch them over to health insurance or something if they weren't on health insurance. You know? Um, do we have the complete bills and records it's either this or this? You understand that right? So robots Joe cell Almark. You understand this? Right? We're not getting the bills and records until we have enough of the policy limits or until the clients reached maximum medical improvement or sometimes the clients just doesn't want to deal with it, you know, but we don't get it until we're kind of done with treatment. Do so. I'll mark you get Harrison you guys get it either. They're treating They might be still treating not every case is the same. Not every case closes up at six months, my case is still two years and three months already, you know, I'm not done treating, I'm kind of starting to feel better now. So when we have that they're done treating, they don't want to treat, or they're at maximum medical improvement. You can't I was telling my doctor today, like, sometimes I'm sitting and my back hurts. He's like, Well, Sandy says that we can't make you all the way better. And I'm like, Yeah, that's what the law tells us, like we've learned in law that they're supposed to get you back to like, to normal, you know, back to you, however, the way you were, but.

45:51
So either at that time when they're at maximum medical improvement 40 to 60% of the policy limits, or client does not want to continue and spoken to an attorney about the ramifications, we may want to goes through, we might want to build on records, we might want to submit the demand. At that time, we may want a future care estimate or a life care plan, like in my situation, I'm not going to always be better, you know, I got a frickin surgery like I didn't have. We didn't have this kind of metal and maybe before you know, so I might need a life care plan that says like Sandy's only gonna be 80% of what she used to be. So you might need to go do that. Like when someone has a surgery, you also want an estimate for future surgery, because that client, they have like a 4% chance of having another surgery, like I've got, if you look in my X ray, it'll show you like a little table. And like a little table looks like a little, like a big old staple table thing like you how staples like a table, it looks like this. And it's in my throat area or whatever, and my neck. And that part. Sometimes it's like the vibration and everything it causes adjacent district mutation or something like that. And the joints on the other side, like the joints on the top or the bottom, they may go bad. So I may need another surgery in the next few years, you know, it's a 4% chance I'm going to get an estimate for it, you know. So there's that.

47:24
One small thing, I just want to say really quick about the life care plans. When I did insurance defense, like the mediations that we would tear apart, the life care plan would almost be too in depth like it would say someone who's 70 years old that works as a cashier needs like $100,000 of vocational rehab. So sometimes the life care plans can be the thing that like tells a case even if it's like a high dollar amount is like just something worth like I don't know, insurance compelled tear those apart and mediations. If it's something like that, obviously, if it's legitimate, and you're a surgeon, and you need vocational rehab, then that's different. But

48:10
anyway, that's good to know. I don't know. So that's great like that all the experiences that you have, is great. I think that as soon as I know that you're good enough that you can handle the cases and everything and that you're actually working. I'm going to give you and Angela and every prelit attorney maybe five to 10 cases of their own. I figure it's not to like hinder you or anything or make you do extra work. But I think you're more well rounded when you actually do 10 cases of your own. And you see like how everything works. Like sometimes the right hand doesn't see how the left hand works. You know, they're like, like I had to go talk to Kayla and I had to go talk to the disbursement person because Kayla's are several girl. And then we got Maggie, the disbursement clerk, we've got more Maggie's now we've got Amanda Gabriel as well, because it just got too big to do all the disbursements. So I'm like, Okay, how does the payments work? Like, if the hospital knows about us? Do we get a discount? Or like, no, it's better that they don't know about us self pays so much better? You know, like, do we send them a letter or whatever, because I wasn't understanding it. You know, like, I didn't understand, like, how it was working with subrogation and all that. And they're like, No, we don't want to send them a letter saying hi, by the way, we exist like, fulfill us pull them out. So sometimes you don't see how the right hand and the left hand works. It's like, we have an attorney named Zach. And he's very good. Because his boss before put them through the wringer his boss before it would be like, well, you're doing pre lit and lit. And now it was so much better of an attorney because you did that. Sometimes life experiences. You go through the experiences of life so that it can prepare you for something else. And it's a whole book on the outliers. Um, I created a course called Mass Tort Academy. And I spent probably $40,000 on this little hobby of mine. I didn't get one sale from it, but because of But I learned a lot more I learned about how to do like training wheels and how to do click funnels and stuff. You know. Um, so because of it, that was great. You know, sometimes things that you do, or are good for the next stepping stone, you'll think about it as a failure. You think about it, you turn it, you flip the script, you know, right. So because his old boss made him do prelit, and lint, he gets to see like what you say, and prelit could affect me and let you know, like, I sat in a deposition yesterday, and the client was like, Well, my case manager told me to stop treating, and I'm like, you know, so now I'm seeing what happens in prelit is affecting litigation at depositions. So I think that right now, we've had some attorneys where I'm like, I'm trying to do it out of the kindness of my heart, you know what I mean? Yeah, I do want you guys to all be working. And I want you guys to always be busy. But I'm doing it out of the kindness of my heart to show you guys that so that you guys be well rounded, and learn all these things. But we've had attorneys where they don't call the client back. And then now we lose two cases, because that attorney was like the worst case manager ever. So until I can trust you with everything, I'm not going to give you my cases, to work them into the ground and not call my clients back and then lose the clients. Like we've had clients lose multimillion dollar cases, we had one client who left our firm because the attorney never called her and it was a 3 million to $50 million case. Yeah, sir. Like, I really hate that attorney, like I don't think should be practicing. And because you lost me millions of dollars, like any normal person could retire off of that, you know. So because of that, we learned that we need to go get callers, we need to go change up our scripts and make sure that we have like now we have two people in litigation that just all they do is call clients all day and say, here's the update, we served her case. And now we're just waiting for them to answer. Where do we did this. And now we're just answering questions back and forth where we're exchanging documents. So that's how we could keep the clients happy and litigation so that we wouldn't lose the clients because our clients are either our attorneys are either too chickenshit don't want to pick up a phone, or they're too lazy to go call these clients back. So we had to go find a way of stopping that from happening in the future. So sometimes things that you do open you up for something else. It's like they're talking about Tony Hawk, he's a skater. For a long time, skating wasn't the thing anymore. You know, like, it was cool when you're like young. And then he like, just kept on doing it. And he loved it. And then one day skating got like, skateboarding became cool again. And now he was the guy because he just never stopped, you know, became like an adult skateboarder.

52:38
And you hear about these stories all the time. In the book, Outliers, there was a guy who was this fat hairy Jew, nobody wanted to hire him. They wouldn't hire white, blond haired, blue eyed Aryan Nation, you know, attorneys. So he would get this, whatever goes through the door law, you know, hang your shingle, whatever comes through the door law, and they used to give him these mergers and acquisitions to do and then one day the tides turn and mergers and acquisitions were the hottest rage. Everyone wanted to merge and acquire things. And he was the one that was expert in this and this guy who didn't couldn't get a job had to go open his own firm and hang his own shingle because he couldn't, and his take whatever came through the door had like an office in the corner of Skadden, Arps. You know, you hear about these stories, and sometimes the stuff that you go through, prepares you for the next thing. So yeah, so at some point, I'm going to make you guys manages cases so that you guys can like put two and two together and see how this works is like, I don't think that sometimes the right hand doesn't speak to the left hand. Yeah, so we might want a future care estimate. We might want a life care plan, we did we submit the demand, or the client still getting results dummies or surgery, or a physical therapy or more injections, because sometimes you inject you can't inject everything at once. You can't do one day and do like, Oh, I'm gonna do all these levels. It's just not realistic, how can you feel better because your whole back was numb. So they had to do like different sides, different levels on different days. So sometimes you are getting more than two. Okay. So then the bills to be higher. And then after you send that a man, we want to make sure that we get the complete impact questions and the medical summary. We want to make sure we get a medical summary. So when John or Harrison or Angela is negotiating this, they can reach to the medical summary and say, Oh, the client missed appointments, no wonder they're getting crappy offer or the client complained that they were having like shooting pains down their arms or whatever. We want to make sure we get the impact questions and impact questions are like, oh, you know, I can no longer do this. I can no longer be a ballet artist. I can no longer rock climb. I had to go change my job and become a cashier. I used to lift things for Amazon and I did become a cashier because I couldn't do that anymore, or whatever. You know, all the ways that there's affecting their life. And then we want the preliminary disbursements thing. And then we want to make sure that liens are verified, not every link Some things you already know, in your heart, you know what's verified, you don't need to verify everything. Um, just the things that you're not sure of anymore, you know, because you're probably sure of the Cairo for the content go back because you know, this client even seeing them for six months or a year or two years, you're like, I know she's had an extra Cairo, you know, you want to verify the other things like maybe the injections, the anesthesiology bill or something, you know, and that's that, and then here, you can quickly look at this and notice, like what's not normal? So for example, treating, like, why don't they have the policy limits yet on Mrs. Cruz? It's November, why do we not have policy limits yet? Right, we're going to ask him all these questions. Why is this not updated in here? You guys have like teams like huge teams. Like, there's three people on your team, we can be updating this? Um, wow, this is a huge, why is it that there's only 1600 and bills? Can we ask well, like, how is the car totaled? How do you not have the policy limits and why they're $600 $1,600 of bills. And there might be a good excuse for this client into Mexico. We would like to have a conversation with that client before they go to Mexico, like sometimes they're like, oh, I want to let you know that my clients going to Mexico, is your trip worth a million dollars? Because you're gonna screw up your trip, or, Hey, if you're going to Mexico, go get me some bills and records from there. Mexico probably doesn't have that cool stuff like that. But like I've had some clients go to Taiwan, and they're getting the bills and records for them. And that sometimes works. But you might want to update the status because maybe this client was deployed, maybe this client got thrown in jail, whatever, but we need to know. So Harrison, you only have 10 cases to be doing. When do you think you can start auditing these cases? Because you'll have 10. The next week? Okay. Um, yeah, I want them all audited, and then next month, so you can audit wills and then John can audit Claudius. Okay, and then by March 1, you should have them all audited and then someone can audit Maritza? And kind of things like that. Okay. We'll see how this goes. And then if there's anything that is out of the ordinary that we need to update on our things, then update it like, like, maybe you're like, This is an unnecessary field. Like we need to delete it, you know, but like, why is this so bad right now? You know.

57:41
Police Report taken Yes. Police report status not updated. Why don't we have the police report yet? Do we even have body worn cameras in Washington? Video? No, no, no,

57:56
no, I haven't heard of that. Yeah, a lot of time. They're just apps cameras. I know. in Tacoma, I think like the Pierce County Sheriff's just all got body cams, but it's like department by department. I don't think Washington State Patrol has them.

58:11
But they don't do they ever share them with us? Like, can we order them?

58:15
When I was a public defender, it was pretty easy to get dashcam footage, the body cam was always kind of bizarre, like it would be deleted, or like there would be an error with it. So

58:27
that was weird. Like, it sounds like hillbilly land. But maybe we do need to delete this field because maybe it's only applicable to Las Vegas, then you'll know after a while or even just talk to the case managers and see StateFarm potential claimants Why is this not updated? Lyft or Uber? Like you'll tell us if there's fields that we need to know. Like, why isn't liability accepted? It's been a month blah blah, blah. OSHA's umiam. Why is this? Why do we have to do the case managers update these are their systems, their teams, it should be their teams. They should be on their teams.

59:08
Okay.

59:12
Like I don't know why we have two of them. I don't really understand that. Do you understand yourself why we have two of these fields like you me who I am is first party. Same thing. Go sell Hallmark. Anybody there? Yeah, this is duplicative in my opinion. Move it over to first party

59:36
I just don't get this I don't understand why you've got this twice. Third party. This makes no sense to me. Merge the two men pay amounts they should all be together in a row but you got two columns with the same thing. Okay. Any other insurance to go after this client have health insurance? What does it say? Health insurance. No. Okay. to kind of go to the hospital Do we have the hospital bills do we have the hospital records like this stuff needs to get last pain management we need to make sure that the client has appointments and they're not missing appointments otherwise we're wondering why there's gaps in employments and then any futures I don't know some of this stuff is a little wonky we don't care about med record complete until it's in a different phase. Joe so it's quite have health insurance. You're doing it again, Joe. Sal. Nobody knows what's I don't think this matters insured parties name. I don't get why we need this. I don't think we need that. But you guys can tell me later. You guys can like go through this as you're working in the trenches. You'll tell me like, this is not good. You know?

1:01:02
Some of this stuff is a little overkill. But why don't you guys write some notes down and see like, what is overkill? And I don't know what number of days is. What is the number of days mean? geocell?

1:01:14
Um, the last one talk with the correctness the what? lost contact with the client? How many days?

1:01:21
Yeah, I don't think we need that. Here it is. I can tell let's some of this stuff is a little overkill. The Wheatfield Okay

1:01:36
Hello.

1:02:18
Okay, so yeah, let's see what's unnecessary on your and come back and report with me. When you guys are auditing these cases, by March 1, you'll have all those cases audited, you'll have a month and a half.

1:02:34
Okay. Cool.

1:02:38
Thank you. And you can just start telling the case managers like hey, by the way, well, I'm auditing cases one through 25. This week, make sure your team is on it. And then next week, they can do 25 through 50. Okay, and each weekend audit 25 cases because they usually have about 100 cases. Well, here's a little bit more than 100. So, okay. And then you'll tell me which team which fields are like we shouldn't have is to pick it ever something. Okay, everybody got it. Everybody's understanding it. And everybody understand this timeline and stuff. Okay, I think we've got it. Yeah. And then we're doing telephone call clients still treating when they're at 40 to 50%, when their maximum medical improvement when they're no longer wanting to treat, we're sending this demand letter. We're also talking to the client to make sure that they'll know the ramifications of us closing up their case early because we can't fix it when they have a big old huge gap or obtain those bills and records. We're getting those demands out. Three P demand medpay demand one P demand we're doing I'm gonna make this a one P request. So we need to change this too. So tell promised me to change this to one P request. Because you're not demanding from your insurance company that you have a contract with your requesting stuff that you have, you know, you're requesting the stuff that you paid for, right, the benefits that you paid for. We're getting that final subrogation lien. Did we have that on here getting the final subrogation lien?

1:04:25
We are doing that we're doing like we're gonna either negotiate when it comes back. We're going to give them more bills and records who they might ask for more bills and records. If you sent an incomplete demand, we're going to either counter it send a last chance letter. I guess last chance letters have been really working for Angela, if you've got a DUI in there, you just do the last chance letter with a complaint for punitive. And then you're gonna verify I'm sorry, Angela, were you saying something?

1:04:55
No, go ahead. Huh? No, you can go ahead.

1:04:59
Okay, so we're doing all that and then we're either then we're either gonna be settling this case litigating this case or dropping this case. And if we're settling the case, and we're gonna, again, verify any things that we haven't verified, we're gonna do a preliminary disbursement sheet approve all the reductions because I sometimes look at it and be like, Oh, we can't go screw off this doctor or whatever. And then we're gonna go obtain the final subrogation lien if we haven't yet. We're gonna send the releases back, obtain the final loan payoffs, calculate expenses, do reductions, and then pay everyone. So everybody understands how a case works, right? Everybody understands how it comes together.

1:05:38
The workflow

1:05:42
Yeah, this is for us. We're gonna edit it some more. The Washington looks a little bit different, I think. But yeah.

1:05:54
Oh, beans.

1:05:56
Okay, cool. No questions, then. We're gonna go You guys remember this guy, see how that all affects everything. And that's how you guys why I want you guys to work upper cases, so you know how the right hand and left hand work. And then I think that's it. So this is a very good class. Let's save it and let's post it in important questions. And for case managers to review so that they know what we're auditing on. Thank you, everyone. Have a nice night. Thank you.
