OPERATIONAL PROCEDURE FOR  VA SOURCING AND RECRUITMENT 


	•	OBJECTIVE

To define the selection process for a Virtual Assistant,  and to establish the  responsibilities of each concerned parties in the selection and recruitment process.


	•	SCOPE

This procedure applies to all VLF and LSH Hiring Managers and HR Staff.

	•	Background Check – an investigation process performed to confirm the candidate’s previous employment records and work conduct from his/her former employer/s.

	•	Hiring Manager – the person responsible in making final hiring decisions, supervises the interview and the entire hiring process and ensures that only the most qualified applicant is hired for a given position.

	•	Hiring Specialist - the person responsible in researching, developing and implementing hiring plans and effective recruitment strategies, also, in charge of advertising the firm's open positions and sourcing candidates from a diverse pool of qualified and capable talent.

	•	Job Offer - a formal document which contains the details of the employment offer that includes salary, benefits, incentives and the job responsibilities given to the candidates who are selected for employment.


	•	PROCEDURE DETAILS
		

Detailed Activity
Responsible
	•	Sourcing

Posting of job vacancies through external platforms, external advertisements 
and sourcing channels: 
	•	Upwork
	•	Odesk
	•	OnlinejobsPH.com
	•	Employee Referrals

Note: External job postings shall be advertised externally 
for a minimum of 7 business days.





Hiring Specialist
	•	Application Screening

Screen the collected applications from all sources  and identify applicants 
who possessed the skills & qualifications needed for the position. 
Collected resumes must be saved to a Google Drive for proper recording 
and manpower pooling. Once the paper screening is done, send an initial 
email to qualified applicants containing the following:


1 - a Google Form with the “Job Ad” questions (pre-interview questions) 
	•	https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfD2eIlmmckoV-YG-E2FaAah7nyiXHl1riEhfeKZDrZLT1e9A/viewform?usp=sf_link

2 - and the test link.
	•	https://apply.wonscore.io/YVXRQC/the firm-Firm

Note: All accomplished forms must be uploaded in HR the case system
for recording and ‘Application Status’ monitoring.





Hiring Specialist
	•	Recruitment General Procedure

     3.3.1   Conduct behavioral/initial interviews via Skype and record it
for documentation purposes. Significant information such as 
relevant job experiences, skill set and other qualifications/credentials must
be gathered during the interview. 

After the call, update the applicant’s file in HR the case system. 
All selected candidates must be endorsed to the Hiring Managers for review 
and final approval, with the following attachments:

1 - the interview recording 
2 - pertinent documents (e.g. CV & Certificates)
3 - screenshots of the tools & devices to be used for the virtual job 
     (e.g. desktop computer, laptop, internet speed, and back-ups)
4 - test results
5 - HR Specialist’s recommendations

Note: All qualified candidates for VLF will be encoded in Asana and
 be marked as  ‘For checking and approval’  of  the VLF Hiring Manager.

For LSH qualified candidates, information must be encoded
in Asana and shall be sent to the LSH Hiring Manager via email.



HR Specialist &
Hiring Manager/s
    
     3.3.2   Once checked and approved by the respective Hiring Manager, 
prepare and send the Job Offer for the candidate’s review and signature 
via email,  together with the Training Bond Agreement letter. Ensure that
an accomplished and signed copy is received prior to the on-boarding process.


HR Specialist

     3.3.3   After receiving the signed Job Offer and Training Bond 
Agreement letter, update the candidate’s file in HR the case system  and proceed to 
the  ‘Reference Checking’ phase.


HR Specialist

     3.3.4   Send an Employment Verification email to the candidate’s 
previous employer/s  for a background check.






HR Specialist
	•	Onboarding

Once the ‘Recruitment General Procedure’ has been completed,
the candidate is now ready for endorsement  to the Training Program.

Note: Coordinate with the Training Team for the training schedule
as determined by the VLF Hiring Manager.




HR Specialist














Prepared by:						Revised & approved by:

Sherlynn Trinos						Mary Rose Cabrera	
(HR Specialist)						(VA Hiring Manager)

