I will be showing you how to create and send a Medical LOR.
Basically, Medical LOR is a letter that we send to request for medical records and bills to medical providers where our clients are being treated or had been treated. This is being sent with a HIPAA attached. So what is HIPAA? HIPAA (as we call it) is a medical release or authorization form that gives healthcare professionals permission to share patient medical information with other parties.
First step, please read your task in sending a Med LOR. Ensure that no same requests were sent, and verify if the records and bills to be requested are not yet received. This is to avoid paying out for these requests multiple times. After checking for these, go to the appropriate folder of provider in meds tab, look for the docgen for Med Lor, click Yes and then Save. The buttons for DocGen are now showing.
We have diff. docgen for Med LOR, so it depends to whom you will send the request. For now, since our task is to send LOR to medical provider so we will be generating the letter from here. After it generates, click on download. 
Notice the highlighted parts in the letter, these are the items that you have to check and edit as needed. Since we have to send this via fax, then we will edit this part. Double check the fax#. Dates Requested Field is use to indicate if we have specific dates of recs and bills to be requested. The default one is from the Date of Loss and up to present. So basically, you have to edit this as necessary, based on what records and bills that are missing. Again, we are doing this to avoid paying out for documents that we are not needing as we do not have to request for certain docs that are already on file. We have to be specific on our request.
For items 1 to 3, you only need to edit this if you are needing a request for either Medical Record or for an Itemized bill. So you have to remove the line that should no be part of your request. That is why you have to read and understand your task in the first place.
So for this particular task, since there is no specific date of service, we will leave this as is. And then place your initials here in lowercase letters.
Sometimes there is no SSN, so please fix this as well. Please ensure that every dot, word is on place.
After that, save a pdf copy of your LOR, then get the copy of the client’s HIPAA. You can either find it in intake tab or in docs tab.
Edit your HIPAA, by adding the name of the provider in this field.  Attach your HIPAA, either by using the insert or combine function in your Nitro. Then save a flattened PDF copy to ensure that the added fields will not move.
It’s time to send our LOR. Go to your email, copy the fax#, remove the dashes and add @metrofax.com
In subject line, enter the Medical provider name followed by Client’s Name and then the letter you are to send, attach the LOR. Please double check the attachment before you send it by downloading what you have attached. Once all are done, then SEND. Wait for the confirmation from metrofax that it was sent successfully. Then, go back to your task in the case system, take note that you sent the request. Move your task accordingly, and monitor for the docs requested before completing your task.
